@document.meta
title: Devlog 2026-05-19 — bento grid + nested routes
slug: devlog-20260519
date: 2026-05-19
summary: Adding the bento grid for subposts and wiring up /projects/{slug}/{post}.
tags: [devlog, css, routing]
draft: false
@end

* Devlog — 2026-05-19
Today was layout day. Got the bento grid working and the nested routes wired end-to-end.

** Work done
*** DONE add ProjectSubPost type
*** DONE folder-walking loader with draft + dup-slug checks
*** DONE /projects/{slug}/{post} route
*** DONE 301 redirect for legacy /project/{slug}
*** DONE bento grid CSS with featured first card
*** DOING richer summary rendering on cards

** Bento layout
The grid uses `auto-fit` + `minmax(220px, 1fr)`, and the first card gets a modifier class that spans 2 columns and 2 rows. On screens under 640px the featured span collapses back to a normal cell.

@code css
.project-subposts-grid {
  display: grid;
  gap: 1rem;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(220px, 1fr));
  grid-auto-rows: minmax(140px, auto);
}

.project-subpost-card--featured {
  grid-column: span 2;
  grid-row: span 2;
}
@end

** Search updates
Subposts now show up in search with the correct nested URL. Added a `ParentSlug` field to `SearchDoc` so `docURL` can build `/projects/{parent}/{slug}` when present.

@code go
func docURL(doc content.SearchDoc) string {
    if doc.Type == "projects" {
        if doc.ParentSlug != "" {
            return "/projects/" + doc.ParentSlug + "/" + doc.Slug
        }
        return "/projects/" + doc.Slug
    }
    return "/post/" + doc.Slug
}
@end

** Tomorrow
- wire RSS to include subposts
- bigger featured tile typography
- maybe a tag chip per card

> Shipped feels good. The route reorg was the scariest piece and it landed without breaking the existing tag and post routes.
