@document.meta
title: How I rebuilt the blog engine
slug: how-i-rebuilt
date: 2026-05-10
summary: From flat Markdown files to a typed Go pipeline with a Neorg parser.
tags: [go, neorg, refactor]
draft: false
@end

* How I rebuilt the blog engine
The old version was a pile of Markdown files glued together with a templating helper. It worked, but it was hard to extend with project devlogs, tags, and search.

** Goals
1. One source format: *Neorg*
2. One binary deploy
3. Folder-based projects, not flat files
4. Search that actually understands content types

** Loading pipeline
The loader walks `content/projects/<slug>/` and treats `index.norg` as the project entry point. Every other `.norg` file becomes a subpost.

@code go
func LoadProjects(dir string) ([]Project, error) {
    folders, err := os.ReadDir(dir)
    if err != nil {
        if os.IsNotExist(err) {
            return []Project{}, nil
        }
        return nil, fmt.Errorf("read projects dir: %w", err)
    }
    // ... walk folders, load index.norg, then siblings
}
@end

** Routing trick
Go's `net/http` ServeMux picks the longest matching pattern. Registering both `/projects` (exact) and `/projects/` (prefix) lets the same prefix family serve three URL shapes:

@table
| URL | Handler |
| - | - |
| /projects | index |
| /projects/{slug} | project detail |
| /projects/{slug}/{post} | subpost detail |
@end

** Inline formatting sanity check
Just to prove the parser handles *bold*, /italic/, _underline_, !spoiler! and inline math $E = mc^2$ in the wild.

> Lesson learned: parse once at startup, query in-memory at request time. No DB, no cache invalidation, no surprises.

#priority high
The next devlog covers the bento grid layout.
