@document.meta
title: Tuning the search ranker
slug: search-ranking
date: 2026-05-15
summary: Why the in-memory ranker scores title, tag, summary, and body differently — and where it still gets it wrong.
tags: [search, ranking, devlog]
draft: false
@end

* Tuning the search ranker
Search is one of the few things on this site that runs on every request. No DB, no Elastic — just a slice of `SearchDoc` and a scorer that walks it.

** The current scoring weights
@table
| Field | Weight |
| - | - |
| title | 50 |
| tags | 30 |
| summary | 20 |
| body | 10 |
@end

Title hits dominate on purpose. If you search /norg/ and a post has "Norg" in the title, that's almost certainly the result you want — outranking five other posts that mention the word in passing.

** The actual scorer
@code go
func scoreDoc(doc content.SearchDoc, tokens []string) int {
    score := 0
    for _, token := range tokens {
        if strings.Contains(strings.ToLower(doc.Title), token) {
            score += 50
        }
        if strings.Contains(strings.ToLower(strings.Join(doc.Tags, " ")), token) {
            score += 30
        }
        if strings.Contains(strings.ToLower(doc.Summary), token) {
            score += 20
        }
        if strings.Contains(strings.ToLower(doc.Body), token) {
            score += 10
        }
    }
    return score
}
@end

** Where it falls apart
*** DONE type filter prefix (`blog ...`, `projects ...`)
*** DONE ParentSlug for subpost URLs in results
*** DOING phrase matching ("project subposts" as one token, not two)
*** TODO stemming so /rebuild/ matches /rebuilt/
*** TODO tag boost cap so a post tagged five times with the same word does not run away

*Phrase matching* is the next thing to land. Right now the indexer splits on whitespace and treats each token independently, so a search for `bento grid` ranks anything containing /bento/ or /grid/ even if they never appear together.

> Lesson: simple scorers are easy to read and easy to be wrong about. Always sanity-check against real queries before trusting the numbers.
